---
layout: post
title: Lasagna
date: 1969-12-31 19:00:00 -0500
category: main
tags: italian meat pork
---
<b>4090 Cal (8x 512 or 12x 340)</b>
  
Ingredients:  
<ul>
	<li>13 no-boil lasagna noodles</li>
	<li>1 lb. sausage (Lincolnshire, Cumberland or mild Italian)</li>
	<li>2 eggs, beaten</li>
	<li>1/2 lb. frozen spinach, or 2 medium zucchini</li>
	<li>15 oz. ricotta cheese</li>
	<li>12 oz. mozzarella cheese</li>
	<li>1 oz. Parmesan cheese</li>
	<li>1 jar pasta or marinara sauce</li>
</ul>
Directions:  
<ol>
	<li>Cook sausage and chop or crumble.</li>
	<li>Beat eggs and fold in ricotta.</li>
	<li>If using spinach, thaw, rinse and drain, then fold in to ricotta.</li>
	<li>Coat bottom of 9x12" dish with sauce. Layer lasagna noodles, coat with ricotta mixture, then top with sausage and zucchini (if using zucchini).  Sprinkle with mozzarella.</li>
	<li>Repeat layers until dish is full. Make sure all lasagna noodles are coated with sauce, and top with Parmesan cheese.</li>
	<li>Cover dish with foil and bake at 375F for 30 minutes.</li>
	<li>Remove foil and bake an additional 20-30 minutes.</li>
	<li>Let stand 15 minutes before serving.</li>
</ol>

---

2014-12-26 19:01:34: Xmas 2014:

2 Tbsp. olive oil  
1/2 onion  
2 bell peppers  
2 cloves garlic  
2 jars pasta sauce  
2 eggs
* Sauté vegetables 5 minutes, then add pasta sauce and simmer for 1 hour.

2 eggs  
15 oz. ricotta
* Beat eggs and mix in ricotta.

16 oz. mozzarella cheese  
4 oz. asiago cheese
* Grate cheeses

1 lb. mild Italian chicken sausage
* Grill sausage and thinly slice

9 lasagna noodles
* Cover bottom of 9" x 12" pan with sauce.
* Cover pan with lasagna noodles, coat with ricotta mixture, layer with sausage slices, sprinkle with mozzarella, and then with sauce.
* Repeat in layers until pan is full.
* Top with last layer of lasagna noodles, coat with sauce and sprinkle with asiago.
