---
layout: post
title: lasagna
date: 2011-03-24 12:00:00 -0500
last_modified_at: 2026-02-17T16:26:48 -0500
category: main
tags: italian meat pork pasta cheese dairy sausage favorite
status: confirmed
---

**cheese sauce:**

1 egg  
8 oz. mascarpone or ricotta cheese  
* beat egg, then fold in cheese to make a smooth sauce


**zucchini:**

1 tbsp. olive oil  
2 medium zucchini  
salt and pepper  
* slice zucchini into thin discs, spread on oiled baking sheet, and season with salt
  and pepper
* bake at 350°F for 20 minutes


**sausage:**

1 tbsp. olive oil  
12 oz. sausage (Lincolnshire, Cumberland or mild Italian)  
* oil a baking sheet and bake sausage at 375°F for 22 minutes
* let cool enough to handle, then slice sausage into thin discs


**assembly:**

6-8 no-boil lasagna noodles or [homemade pasta]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2024-06-17-homemade-pasta %})  
8 oz. mozzarella cheese, grated  
2 oz. Parmesan cheese, grated  
16 oz. pasta sauce or [philly tomato pie sauce]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2024-09-27-philly-tomato-pie-sauce %})  
* coat bottom of an 8x8" dish with sauce, arrange lasagna noodles to cover the pan,
  spread cheese sauce on the noodles, top with sausage and zucchini, then sprinkle with
  mozzarella
* repeat layers until dish is full (3-4 layers), making sure all lasagna noodles are
  coated with sauce, and top with parmesan
* cover dish with foil and bake at 375°F for 30 minutes
* remove foil and bake an additional 20-30 minutes, until cheese is melted and browned
* let stand 15 minutes before serving

---

2014-12-26 19:01:34: Xmas 2014:

2 Tbsp. olive oil  
1/2 onion  
2 bell peppers  
2 cloves garlic  
2 jars pasta sauce  
2 eggs  
* Sauté vegetables 5 minutes, then add pasta sauce and simmer for 1 hour.

2 eggs  
15 oz. ricotta  
* Beat eggs and mix in ricotta.

16 oz. mozzarella cheese  
4 oz. asiago cheese
* Grate cheeses

1 lb. mild Italian chicken sausage  
* Grill sausage and thinly slice

9 lasagna noodles
* Cover bottom of 9" x 12" pan with sauce.
* Cover pan with lasagna noodles, coat with ricotta mixture, layer with sausage slices, sprinkle with mozzarella, and then with sauce.
* Repeat in layers until pan is full.
* Top with last layer of lasagna noodles, coat with sauce and sprinkle with asiago.

01/28/2023: vegetarian version:
* 12 noodles in four layers, making 4-6 servings in a 8x8" pan
* omitted sausage
* sliced 2 zucchini in 1/8" slices and baked at 400°F 6-7 minutes per side
* made 4 thinner layers
* used 1 jar of pasta sauce, adding 3 cloves of minced, roasted garlic
* this was very good, but the noodles were a little gummy because not quite enough
  moisture — would increase the amount of sauce next time

04/16/2025: made an 8" x 8" lasagna tonight with
[philly tomato pie sauce]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2024-09-27-philly-tomato-pie-sauce %}),
[italian sausage]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2025-04-04-italian-sausage %}),
and baked zucchini (20 minutes at 350°F). i par-boiled the lasagna noodles, and i
follwed the package instructions (bake for 20 minutes at 400°F), but the noodles
were a bit firm, and the lasagna had a little too much moisture. so next time i would
bake for 30-45 minutes instead. i also used sliced mozzarella (slices about 3/16"
thick) which were a little too thick, so i would shred whole mozzarella instead.
but otherwise, it was a very nice combination.

01/21/2026: updating to reflect what i'm currently doing (8x8" pan, zucchini, philly
tomato pie sauce)
