---
layout: post
title: Hummus
date: 2014-12-21 13:12:49 -0500
last_modified_at: 2025-08-27T07:50:33 -0400
category: sides
tags: middleeast vegetarian tahini chickpeas rainbowplantlife favorite
status: confirmed
---

1 can chickpeas  
1/2 tsp. baking soda  
* stovetop: drain chicken chickpeas and add to a small saucepan with baking soda and
  cover with water. bring to a boil, simmer for 20 minutes, then drain
* microwave: add chickpeas with liquid to a microwave safe bowl, add baking soda, and 
  microwave for 5 minutes on high.
* add to blender

6 tbsp. (90g) tahini  
3 tbsp. lemon juice  
1/2 tsp. cumin  
1/2 tsp. salt  
1/4 tsp. pepper  
* add to blender

1 tbsp. olive oil  
2 cloves garlic, chopped  
* heat oil in a small pan and saute garlic to desired level of doneness
* add to blender

3-4 tbsp. cold water  
* add 1 tbsp. of water at a time and stir, until the mixture can be blended
* add additional water 1 tbsp. at a time until you have reached desired consistency
* taste and adjust salt, garlic, cumin, or lemon juice

optional: top with topping, such as a garlic-lemon topping from the [original recipe](https://rainbowplantlife.com/how-to-make-amazing-hummus-at-home/#recipe), sauteing 
garlic and pine nuts in olive oil, or tapenade, etc.

source: <https://rainbowplantlife.com/how-to-make-amazing-hummus-at-home>

---

8/12/25: updating recipe with Rainbow Plant Life's instructions, which are basically
the same as what i had before, except she wants the chickpeas cooked and has a different
topping.

8/27/25: made this a few weeks ago and it was fantastic — cooking the chickpeas really
does make a huge difference in the texture. i updated the instructions to saute the
garlic, because the raw garlic was a little sharper than i would like.
