---
layout: post
title: Apple Pie
date: 2014-12-25 13:37:47 -0500
last_modified_at: 2023-11-23 10:51:02 -0500
category: dessert
tags: apple pie fruit thanksgiving thanksgiving2020 bettycrocker
---
2 Tbsp. butter  
6-8 Granny Smith apples, pared and thinly sliced  
1/4 tsp. cinnamon  
1/4 tsp. cloves  
1/4 tsp. nutmeg  
1/2 tsp. salt  
1/2 cup sugar  
1/4 cup flour  
* melt butter and saute apples with spices and sugar for 10 minutes in a large pot
  or dutch oven
* remove from the heat and stir in flour
* rest while making the pie crusts

1 egg  
1 Tbsp. water  
2 [pie crusts]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 1969-12-31-pie-crust %})  
* beat egg and water to make an egg wash
* line deep pie dish, brush with egg wash, and fill with apples
* top with second pie crust, seal edges, and cut slits to vent
* brush top crust with egg wash and let dry before covering edges with foil or a
  crust protector
* bake at 400°F for 25 minutes with foil/protector
* remove foil/protector and bake for 15 minutes until crust is golden brown and
  filling is bubbling

source: Betty Crocker (1981 ed.), modified to pre-bake apples to avoid large gap
between crust and filling (also using less sugar to avoid an overly-sweet pie)

---

11/20/21: mini pies:
* Make 2 pie crusts and cut 4.5" circles to line muffin pan wells, with extra crust
  left over to cut decorations instead of top crust.
* Reduce apples to 4, and cut very small (cut apples into 1/8ths, slice each chunk
  into 3-4 thin slices lengthwise, then cut into thirds crosswise). Do not reduce
  other ingredients so filling is more intense to compensate for increased
  crust-to-pie ratio.
* Bake at 400°F for 20-25 minutes until the crust is browned.
* Makes 12 mini pies.
