---
layout: post
title: Brisket (Old)
date: 2015-07-27 10:24:50 -0500
category: main
tags: bbq beef brisket meat pork southern
---
<ul>
	<li>Brisket, approx. 4 lbs.</li>
	<li>Lump charcoal</li>
	<li>2 cups barbecue sauce, e.g., <a href="https://escowles.github.io/recipes/ingredients/2015/07/22/big-als-kc-barbecue-sauce.html">Big Al's KC Barbecue sauce</a> (optional)</li>
	<li>Wood chips (mesquite, etc.) (optional)</li>
</ul>
<ol>
	<li>Marinate brisket/butt overnight, see brisket marinade or <a href="https://escowles.github.io/recipes/main/2013/05/05/mojo-chicken.html">mojo marindade</a></li>
	<li>Coat brisket/butt in barbecue sauce and set aside. (optional)</li>
	<li>Soak wood chips in water and set aside. (optional)</li>
	<li>Fill smoker firebox with lump charcoal, light and wait until fire is well started, about 10 minutes.</li>
	<li>Close the smoker lid and carefully monitor as it heats up.  Close vents to regulate temperature as it approaches 225°F and stabilize the temperature at 250°F.</li>
	<li>Add the following to the smoker quickly to minimize oxygen allowed into the smoker:  
<ol>
	<li>wood chips directly on charcoal (optional)</li>
	<li>plate spreader (feet up)</li>
	<li>drip pan filled with water</li>
	<li>grill rack</li>
	<li>brisket, fat side down</li>
</ol>
</li>
	<li>Smoke for a total of 1 hour 15 minutes per pound, opening lid as infrequently as possible.</li>
	<li>With 2 hours left and brisket/butt is between 150°F and 170°F, remove and wrap in foil with ½ cup of liquid (beer, wine, broth, apple juice, etc.).</li>
	<li>Continue smoking for last 2 hours until temperature is 200°F.</li>
	<li>Remove foil, reserving drippings for gravy if desired.</li>
	<li>For well-browned exterior bark, return to smoker for 15 minutes and open vents, allowing temperature to rise to 300°F or higher.</li>
	<li>Allow brisket to rest for 15 minutes, then slice thinly against the grain.</li>
</ol>
Source: http://www.lakegenevacountrymeats.com/recipes/big-green-egg-brisket-recipe  
