---
layout: post
title: meatloaf
date: 2021-01-23 14:53:57 -0500
last_modified_at: 2022-06-19 10:11:20 -0400
category: main
tags: meat beef pork american foodlab
---

1/2 cup chicken stock  
1/4 cup milk  
1/2 oz. gelatin (2 packets) or 2 tsp. corn starch  
* combine all ingredients and set aside

3 slices white sandwich bread  
1 tsp. anchovy paste  
1 tsp. paprika  
1 tsp. worcestershire sauce  
2 tsp. soy sauce  
2 cloved garlic  
1 small onion  
10 baby carrots  
1 stalk celery  
2 Tbsp. butter  
* trim bread crusts, pulse in food processor until reduced to crumbs, then set aside in a large bowl
* roughly chop garlic, then pulse in food processor with anchovy paste, paprika, and sauces until
  reduced to paste, scraping down sides as needed
* add vegetables and pulse until finely chopped
* heat butter in frying pan and cook the mixture, stirring frequently, until mixture darkens and
  most liquid has evaporated, about 5 minutes.
* add stock/milk mixture, bring to a simmer, then cook until reduced by half, about 10 minutes
* add mixture to bread crumbs, and let cool until cool enough to handle, about 10 minutes

1 lb. ground pork  
1.5 lbs. ground beef  
2 eggs  
4 oz. sharp cheese (cheddar, provolone, etc.)  
1 Tbsp. dry parsley  
1 tsp. salt  
1 tsp. pepper  
* add all ingredients to bread crumb mixture and mix by hand
* remove a 1 tsp. sample and microwave for 15 seconds to taste seasoning and adjust as needed
* pack into a 9x5" loaf pan, cover with foil and refrigerate for 15 minutes while oven preheats
* without removing foil, invert loaf pan onto baking sheet
* loosen foil from loaf pan and spread out, folding edges up to contain moisture
* bake at 350째F for 30 minutes
* carefully remove loaf pan and cook meatloaf until the internal temperature reaches 140째F, about
  40 minutes
* remove from oven and rest for 15 minutes while increasing oven temperature to 500째F.

1/4 cup brown sugar  
3/4 cup ketchup  
1/2 cup apple cider vinegar  
1/2 tsp. pepper  
* heat all ingredients in a small saucepan, and cook for 2 minutes then remove from heat
* brush meatloaf with a thin layer of sauce, then cook for an additional 3 minutes
* repeat two more times, until the internal temperature reaches 150째F and the exterier is well
  browned
* remove from oven and rest for 15 minutes before serving

source: food lab cookbook, p. 553
