---
layout: post
title: macarons
date: 2021-04-24 08:27:38 -0400
category: dessert
tags: french cookies
---

198g powdered sugar  
113g almond flour  
113g egg whites (4 large)  
1/8 tsp. cream of tartar  
100g sugar  
food coloring (optional)  
3 drops vanilla  
* pulse powdered sugar and almond flour in food processor for 15 seconds, set aside
* whip egg whites and cream of tartar in stand mixer until foamy 
* add sugar and whip until whites are glossy
* add color and vanilla and continue whipping until lines are visible on the surface
  and stiff peaks have formed
* fold in almond mixture in three increments
* paint the mixture halfway up the side of the bowl, then scrape down, repating two
  or three times until the mixture slides down the side of the bowl

* trace circles on parchment paper and turn over so batter doesn't touch ink
* fit piping bag with 3/8" tip, fill with batter and fill the circles
* slam the baking sheet on the counter 4-6 times, then punch each end of the baking
  sheet bottom twice.
* let uncooked batter dry until dull (but not completely dry), about 20-30 minutes,
  depending on humidity.
* preheat oven while macarons are drying. bake at 330°F for 11-15 minutes, until they
  relese without sticking.
* let cool on the baking sheet for 10 minutes before removing to a cooling rack.

**adding additional flavors:**

* add alcohol/extract based flavor with the vanilla, 2-3 drops
* add powdered fruit/spice/tea based flavors with the almond flour, up to 1 tsp.
* do not add oil-based flavorings, since they will make the macarons blotchy.

source: Craftsy "Miniature French Desserts: Macarons, Madeleines & More", p. 9-10.
