---
layout: post
title: black dal
date: 2023-04-23 09:40:28 -0400
last_modified_at: 2025-01-13T16:37:35
category: sides
tags: indian vegetarian vegan rainbowplantlife longish
status: draft
---

1 1/4 cup (205g) whole urad dal (aka black gram)  
1 teaspoon baking soda  
1/2 tsp. kosher salt  
* rinse dal with water and scrub by hand, drain the water, and repeat a few times
* cover with cold water, add baking soda, and soak overnight. for a quicker soak (4 hours), use boiling water
* drain and rinse several times, until water runs clear
* transfer to a saucepan and cover with 1 inch of water and add salt
* bring to a boil, skimming off any foam.
* reduce heat and simmer for 60 minutes, until the dal is very soft (add water to keep it from
  drying out if too much evaporates)
* drain dal, reserving cooking liquid, and set both aside

1 1/2 tbsp. neutral oil  
2" to 3" cinnamon stick  
4 green cardamom pods, seeds only (¼ heaping tsp of seeds)  
3 whole cloves  
1 bay leaf  
1 teaspoon cumin seeds  
* heat oil in a dutch oven, add spices, and stir fry for 1 minute

1 onion, finely diced  
1 tbsp. water  
4 garlic cloves, minced  
1-inch piece fresh ginger, minced  
* add onion and saute for 5-7 minutes, until starting to brown
* add water and stir to deglaze pan
* add garlic and ginger and cook for 1 minute

2 tbsp. tomato paste or ketchup  
1/8 tsp. nutmeg  
1 tsp. coriander  
1/2 tsp. chile powder  
2 tsp. kosher salt  
pepper  
* add to the pot, and stir frequently for 1 minute

15 oz. can tomatoes  
2 1/2 cups cooking liquid (add water to make up the difference as needed)  
black dal from above  
* add to pot, stir well, and bring to a boil
* reduce heat and simmer for 60 minutes, stirring every 10 minutes

15 oz. can coconut milk  
1 cup cilantro leaves and tender stems, chopped  
1 tbsp. lemon juice  
* stir in and simmer for 10 minutes

source: <https://rainbowplantlife.com/vegan-dal-makhani/>
---
04/23/23: i misread the original recipe and so did not add extra water when adding the soaked urad 
dal, so it burned in the instant pot. i removed it to the stovetopand simmered for about 3 hours,
adding about 4 cups of water over time, before it was moderately tender.

01/13/25: switching to a rainbowplantlife recipe, since i've liked all of her recipes that we've
tried.
