---
layout: post
title: bo ssam
date: 2024-09-21 06:19:06 -0400
last_modified_at: 2025-08-05T13:12:11 -0400
category: main
tags: meat pork asian korean nytimes momofuku longish crockpot
status: confirmed
---

bone-in pork shoulder (8-10 lbs.)  
3 tbsp. cup kosher salt  
3 tbsp. cup brown sugar
* mix salt and sugars
* cube pork and toss with salt/sugar mixture
* place in a ziplock bag and chill overnight
* discard juices, brush off excess salt/sugar, and transfer pork to a crockpot
* cook on low for 8 hours, until very tender
* remove from crockpot and shred
* serve with ginger-scallion and ssam sauces, rice, lettuce leaves, and kimchi,
  making a taco with a lettuce leaf as a wrapper, or a taco salad

## ginger-scallion sauce:

1/2 bunch scallions, thinly sliced  
2" fresh ginger, peeled and sliced  
1 tbsp. neutral oil  
1 tbsp. sherry or rice vinegar  
2 tsp. soy sauce  
1/4 tsp. salt  
* puree all ingredients in food processor to make a chunky sauce

## ssam sauce:

2 tbsp. ssamjang (fermented bean-and-chili paste)  
1 tbsp. kochujang (chili paste)  
2 tbsp. sherry or rice vinegar  
2 tbsp. neutral oil  
* mix all ingredients to make a thick chili sauce

source: <https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/12197-momofukus-bo-ssam>

---

09/21/2024: commenters say it's too salty (both the overnight brine and the glaze),
so i think i will reduce the amount of both.

9/22/2024: made this tonight and it was very good, but the texture of the pork 
wasn't what i would like (i pulled it out after 6 hours, and it definitely wasn't
collapsing, or easily shreddable). i made several subs and changes, so let's get
those out of the way first:

* used 1/4 cup of kosher salt and white sugar for the rub
* used rice vinegar instead of sherry vinegar
* puréed the ginger-scallion sauce (and added more soy sauce and rice vinegar to 
  make it thin enough to blend)
* didn't have ssamjang, so doubled kochujang and used 1 tbsp. of black bean sauce
* used 1/3 cup brown sugar and 1/2 tsp. salt for the rub, mostly a powder on top
  and browned for 5 minutes instead of 15

next time i would:

* either get ssamjang or use a lot more gochujang to make the sauce spicer, and
  reduce the oil a lot
* cube the pork, toss with salt/sugar mix, and cook in a crockpot
* mix with brown sugar and broil to make a bark

11/25/2024: made a crockpot version of this which was great. adjusted the ratios in
the sauces a bit to make the ginger/scallion sauce blendable, and the ssam sauce
thicker and spicier. the salt/sugar/brown sugar rub went perfectly with the fattiness
of the pork shoulder.

02/10/2025: reduced salt/sugar marinade quite a bit and it's still great.
